1550666858	Do what you love and what you think you are good at.	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rbxc1nHVwBA	Donna Strickland believes that our gender shouldn't affect our career choices. Her wise advice might help us all to make better decisions. Strickland was awarded the 2018 Nobel Prize in Physics for her work with optical pulses.	plain	yt:video:Rbxc1nHVwBA	Nobel Prize
1549635564	Marie Curie was a Nobel Laureate of many firsts	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xJ9G_jFqk2U	Marie Curie was a Nobel Laureate of many firsts: the first woman to be awarded a Nobel Prize, the first person to be awarded the prize twice and still the only person to receive the prize in two different scientific fields.\n\nShe received the news that she was to be awarded her second Nobel Prize on her 44th birthday - a special present for a very impressive scientist.	plain	yt:video:xJ9G_jFqk2U	Nobel Prize
1549635443	Tu Youyou and traditional Chinese medicine	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VCWB-bL7pTg	Traditional Chinese medicine uses sweet wormwood to treat fever. In the 1970s, after studies of traditional herbal medicines, Tu Youyou managed to extract a substance, artemisinin, which inhibits the malaria parasite. Drugs based on artemisinin have led to the survival and improved health of millions of people.	plain	yt:video:VCWB-bL7pTg	Nobel Prize
1549287978	2018 Medicine Laureates on their cancer therapy discovery	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1jtGpTh6TFI	"This isn't just a cancer therapy. This is a way of liberating people from the burden of having a disease that could come back and kill you."\n \nMedicine Laureates James Allison and Tasuku Honjo share their personal experiences with cancer and the hope their remarkable cancer therapy gives to patients across the globe.	plain	yt:video:1jtGpTh6TFI	Nobel Prize
1549015468	Water and Climate Change: Nobel Week Dialogue 2019	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aewK7Kzf43A	Lisen Schultz, deputy science director at the Stockholm Resilience Centre, moderates a discussion on the effects of climate change on water. Participating are:\nSteven Chu, Nobel Laureate in Physics 1997\nJulian Dowdeswell, director of the Scott Polar Research Institute and professor of physical geography in the University of Cambridge\nJohan Rockström, professor of environmental science and co-chair of the world’s largest research network for global sustainability science, Future Earth\n\nThe Nobel Week Dialogue is a free of charge, full-day event and part of the official Nobel Week programme. The event aims to stimulate discussion at the highest level on a topical science-related theme by bringing together Nobel Laureates, the world’s leading scientists and experts, key opinion leaders, policy makers and the general public, online as well as on site. By bridging science and society, it’s an opportunity to stimulate thinking, excite imagination and inspire greatness.	plain	yt:video:aewK7Kzf43A	Nobel Prize
1548247040	If you had 15 minutes with a Nobel Laureate, what would you ask?	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OotsRHLJD7U	PhD student Sofie Ährlund-Richter got the chance to chat with 2018 Chemistry Laureate Frances Arnold. They discussed everything from fearlessness and motivation to creating a sustainable world and being persistent in pursuing long-term goals.\n \n“If you’re going to change the world, you’ve got to try really different things,” Frances told Sofie.	plain	yt:video:OotsRHLJD7U	Nobel Prize
1548247004	“We need all kinds of people doing science” May-Britt Moser, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HL0s7vFYvIY	At a Nobel Prize Inspiration Initiative event in Spain, Nobel Laureate Professor May-Britt Moser shared her thoughts on the importance of having a diversity of people contributing to science.\n \nOver the two-day event, Professor Moser visited the Complutense University of Madrid, the Hospital La Paz Institute for Health Research (IdiPAZ), Autonoma University of Madrid, and the University of Santiago de Compostela, and the Centre for Research in Molecular Medicine and Chronic Disease (CIMUS). Professor Moser was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2014.\n \nThe Nobel Prize Inspiration Initiative (NPII) is a global programme designed to help Nobel Laureates share their inspirational stories and insights. By taking Nobel Laureates on visits to universities and research centres around the world, and by capturing their thoughts on video, the Initiative seeks to bring the Laureates into closer contact with the worldwide scientific community, and especially with an audience of young scientists. NPII Spain 2018 was delivered in partnership with AstraZeneca. For more information please visit www.nobelprize.org/npii.	plain	yt:video:HL0s7vFYvIY	Nobel Prize
1548053016	Martin Luther King Jr highlights	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8TxEUx9-vo	We take a look back at the life of one of our most well-known Peace Laureates: Martin Luther King Jr.	plain	yt:video:_8TxEUx9-vo	Nobel Prize
1548052990	Jesse Jackson on the legacy of Martin Luther King’s dream	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RgzzKFMqSQY	“The dream is under attack… but the dream is so resilient. The dream will prevail because we will not give up.”\n \nMartin Luther King’s close aide and fellow civil rights icon Jesse Jackson reflects on the highs and lows in the journey towards realising King’s dream.\n \nJackson shared his thoughts at the Nobel Prize Museum in Stockholm where the Martin Luther King exhibition ‘A Right to Freedom’ runs until 15 September 2019.	plain	yt:video:RgzzKFMqSQY	Nobel Prize
1547977748	1. Growing up in the south	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jh_MjItgcuQ	Segregation of blacks and whites had a major impact on society and life in the American South. African-Americans were subjected to oppression and violence. Demands for better conditions grew. In Atlanta, Georgia, where Martin Luther King grew up, discrimination was widespread, but some African-Americans still managed to build competitive businesses. Martin Luther King, Jr. grew up in a relatively well-off family. His father was a Baptist minister, a religious heritage that strongly influenced his ideas. Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi and his struggle based on non-violence, which King became familiar with as a student, also played an important role in his thinking.	plain	yt:video:jh_MjItgcuQ	Nobel Prize
1547977748	2. Stride toward freedom	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8qSgClSyDM4	During the 1950s the fight against segregation intensified. Key strides were made in education. In 1954 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that schools could not establish separate public schools for white and black students. Nevertheless, several conflicts arose when African-American students began entering schools only white students had previously attended. Another area where the fight against segregation moved forward was public transportation. In 1955 in Montgomery, Alabama, activist Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat on a bus to a white man. This was the start of a long boycott of city buses. Martin Luther King, who at the time was a pastor in Montgomery, emerged as the leader of the campaign.	plain	yt:video:8qSgClSyDM4	Nobel Prize
1547977748	3. Why we can't wait	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bi0yr4s6YeM	At the beginning of the 1960s, Martin Luther King continued the fight against segregation and discrimination in several places. In Birmingham, Alabama, sharp clashes occurred in 1963 between activists and police. King was arrested and wrote a letter in jail in which he developed his ideas about the principle of non-violence. Later the same year the large March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom took place. This is where King delivered his “I Have a Dream” speech. Two years later marches in Selma, Alabama protested against limitations on the voting rights of African-Americans. In the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Voting Rights Act of 1965, the civil rights of all Americans were strengthened.	plain	yt:video:Bi0yr4s6YeM	Nobel Prize
1547977748	4. The Nobel journey	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gjVEuzb4irU	Respect for human rights is a prerequisite for peace. In October 1964 Martin Luther King was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his non-violence-based fight for the rights of African-Americans. Contributions to human rights had been recognized a few years earlier when Albert Lutuli of South Africa was awarded the Peace Prize, and a few years later it was awarded to René Cassin for his work on the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. After the Nobel Prize award ceremony in Oslo, King visited Stockholm and returned two years later for a philanthropic concert benefiting the civil rights movement. The Nobel Prize helped reinforce Martin Luther King’s international reputation and involvement.	plain	yt:video:gjVEuzb4irU	Nobel Prize
1547977747	6. Reaching the mountaintop	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SR24T5ePmXY	On April 4, 1968, Martin Luther King was assassinated in Memphis, Tennessee. Riots and unrest followed the killing. King’s last project, the Poor People’s Campaign, continued the fight for economic justice for some time but was discontinued later. The movement took new avenues, but King’s ideas and visions about the equal worth of all people have lived on. His wife, Coretta Scott King, continued the fight and also became involved in opposing nuclear weapons and promoting women’s rights, among other things.	plain	yt:video:SR24T5ePmXY	Nobel Prize
